Update Batch Changes developer docs for new team member (#19649)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/background-information/batch_changes/index.md

# Developing batch changes

## Getting started

Welcome, new batch change developer! This section will give you a rough overview of what Batch Changes is and how it works.

> NOTE: Never hesitate to ask in `#batch-changes-team` for help!

### What are batch changes?

Before diving into the technical part of batch changes, make sure to read up on what batch changes are, what they're not and what we want them to be:

1. Look at the [batch changes product page](https://about.sourcegraph.com).
1. Watch the 2min [demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eOmiyXIWTCw)

Next: **create your first batch change!**

### Creating a batch change locally

> NOTE: **Make sure your local development environment is set up** by going through the "[Getting started](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/getting-started)" guide.

1. Since Batch Changes is an enterprise-only feature, make sure to start your local environment with `./enterprise/dev/start.sh`.
1. Go through the [Quickstart for Batch Changes](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/quickstart) to create a batch change in your local environment.

> - **Remember:** If you create a batch change, you're opening real PRs on GitHub. Make sure only [testing repositories](#github-testing-account) are affected. If you create a large batch change, it takes a while to preview/create but also helps a lot with finding bugs/errors, etc.

Reviewer: At first I found this a bit confusing, because I thought there was one main point (make sure to use testing repos), but there's a second one which is unrelated (large batch changes take more time, but it's still valuable to do). Maybe split this into two points? Or even just start with "also", like: "Also, if you create a large..."

Author: For the record: this was already there, I just moved it around. But yes, agree :)

Author: Reworked that whole section!

1. Now combine what you just did with some background information by reading the following:

- [Batch Changes architecture overview](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/background-information/architecture#batch-changes)
- [How src executes a batch spec](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/how_src_executes_a_batch_spec)
- [Batch Changes design](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/batch_changes_design)

### Code walkthrough

> To give you a rough overview where each part of the code lives, let's take a look at **which code gets executed when you run `src batch preview -f your-batch-spec.yaml`, click on the preview link and then click `Apply spec` to publish changesets on the code hosts**:

Reviewer: I think something went wrong here; was part of this line supposed to land further below? That's an awfully lot of **bold**.

Reviewer: Maybe it's as simple as only putting "**which code gets executed**" in bold? Or maybe this:
```suggestion
To give you a rough overview where each part of the code lives, let's take a look at **which code gets executed when you run a batch change**:
```

Author: I reworked that section slightly, thanks!

1. The most important thing that happens in `(*Service).ApplyBatchChange` is that [it calls the `rewirer`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7f26c0d7bc965892669a5fc9835ec65211943aa/enterprise/internal/batches/service/service_apply_batch_change.go#L119-L135) to wire the entries in the `changesets` table to the correct `changeset_specs`.
1. Once that is done, the `changesets` are created or updated to point to the new `changeset_specs` that you created with `src-cli`.

After that you can look at your new batch change in the UI while the rest happens asynchronously in the background:

1. In a background process (which is started in (`enterprise/cmd/repo-updater`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7f26c0d7bc965892669a5fc9835ec65211943aa/enterprise/cmd/repo-updater/main.go#L58)) [a `worker` is running](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7f26c0d7bc965892669a5fc9835ec65211943aa/enterprise/internal/batches/background/background.go#L19) that monitors the `changesets` the table.

> 1. Once a `changeset` has been rewired to a new `changeset_spec` and reset this worker, called the [`Reconciler`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7f26c0d7bc965892669a5fc9835ec65211943aa/enterprise/internal/batches/reconciler/reconciler.go#L24:6), fetches the changeset from the database and "reconciles" its current state (not published yet) with its desired state ("published on code host X, with this diff, that title and this body")

Reviewer: I think this needs a comma (or else I don't understand what it's supposed to mean):
```suggestion
1. Once a `changeset` has been rewired to a new `changeset_spec` and reset, this worker (called the [`Reconciler`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7f26c0d7bc965892669a5fc9835ec65211943aa/enterprise/internal/batches/reconciler/reconciler.go#L24:6)) fetches the changeset from the database and "reconciles" its current state (not published yet) with its desired state ("published on code host X, with this diff, that title and this body")
```

Author: Hehe, yes.

1. To push a commit to the code host, the `Executor` [sends a request](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7f26c0d7bc965892669a5fc9835ec65211943aa/enterprise/internal/batches/reconciler/executor.go#L462:20) to the [`gitserver` service](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/background-information/architecture#code-syncing)
1. To create or update a pull request or merge request on the code host it [builds a `ChangesetSource`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7f26c0d7bc965892669a5fc9835ec65211943aa/enterprise/internal/batches/reconciler/executor.go#L149) which is a wrapper around the GitHub, Bitbucket Server and GitLab HTTP clients.

While that is going on in the background the [`BatchChangeDetailsPage` component is polling the GraphQL](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7f26c0d7bc965892669a5fc9835ec65211943aa/client/web/src/enterprise/batches/detail/BatchChangeDetailsPage.tsx#L87-L90) to get the current state of the Batch Change and its changesets.

Once all instances of the `Reconciler` worker are done determining plans and executing them, you'll see that your changesets have been published on the code hosts.

## Glossary

> Batch Changes have a lot of new names, GraphQL queries and mutations and database tables. This section tries to explain the most common names and provide a mapping between the GraphQL types and their internal counterpart in the Go backend.

Reviewer: This should start with "Batch Changes has" if you mean the feature (singular), or "Batch changes have" if you mean the batch changes themselves (plural). I _think_ you want the latter:
```suggestion
Batch changes have a lot of new names, GraphQL queries and mutations and database tables. This section tries to explain the most common names and provide a mapping between the GraphQL types and their internal counterpart in the Go backend.
```

| ------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Changeset`         | `batches.Changeset`      | `changesets`       | A changeset is a generic abstraction for pull requests and merge requests.                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `BatchChange`       | `batches.BatchChange`    | `batch_changes`    | A batch change is a collection of changesets. The central entity.                                                                                                                                                                                              |

> | `ChangesetSpec`     | `batches.ChangesetSpec`  | `changeset_specs`  | A changeset spec describes the desired state of a changeset.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ChangesetSpec`     | `batches.ChangesetSpec`  | `changeset_specs`  | A changeset spec describes the desired state of a single changeset.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
```

| `ExternalChangeset` | `batches.Changeset`      | `changesets`       | Changeset is the unified name for pull requests/merge requests/etc. on code hosts.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `ChangesetEvent`    | `batches.ChangesetEvent` | `changeset_events` | A changeset event is an event on a code host, e.g. a comment or a review on a pull request on GitHub. They are created by syncing the changesets from the code host on a regular basis and by accepting webhook events and turning them into changeset events. |

## Structure of the Go backend code

The following is a list of Go packages in the [`sourcegraph/sourcegraph`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph) repository and short explanations of what each package does:

> - `internal/campaigns`:

Reviewer: All of this section refers to `campaigns`, and needs to be updated.
